.\"
.\" Generated automatically from mk_man -- the manpage "templater" 
.\"
.\" Man page for Bin2S19
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Thomas Pantzer,,,.
.\"
.\" Thomas Pantzer,,,
.\" pantec@nadir
.\" private site
.\"
.\" learning the man-style ?? 
.\" type at the prompt>> 
.\"		man 7 man [ENTER]
.\"
.\" hints
.\"	.TH	-> title header	
.\"	.SH	-> section header
.\"	.B	-> bold 
.\"	.TP	-> tagged list
.\"	.BR	-> linefeed
.\"	.PP	-> paragraph space
.\"	\fB	-> bold
.\"	\fI	-> italic (underline)
.\"	\fR	-> normal attribute
.\"
.TH Bin2S19 1 "October 28, 2002"
.LO 1
.SH NAME
.\" Abstract section
.\"
Bin2S19 \- makes hexdumps
.SH SYNOPSIS
Bin2S19 \fB-f\fR \fI<file>\fR \fB-w\fR   
.PP
Bin2S19 \fB-f\fR \fI<file>\fR [\fB-r\fR|\fB-s\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fI<length>\fR] [\fB\-\^b\fR \fI<address>\fR]
.BR
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Bin2S19
converts binary files to Motorola S19 format and vice versa. 
It can process raw binaries as well as binaries created by dasm.  
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \fB\-\^b\fR \fI<base_address>\fR
offset address where the binary file has to be placed in the Motorola ROM.
.TP
.B \fB\-\^f\fR \fI<file_string>\fR
input file name. When converting from S19 format to binary the extension "s19" 
has to be ommitted. The output file will be named "<name>-0x<baseaddress>.bin".
.TP
.B \-\^s, \fB-\-\^s19\fR
will create s19 format output from binary.
.TP
.B \-\^r, \fB-\-\^ras\fR
process binaries created by dasm with format "random access segments".
.TP
.B \-\^w, \fB-\-\^raw\fR
make binary output from S19 file.
.TP
.B \fB\-\^c\fR \fI<record_number>\fR
specifies the S19 record lenght (number of bytes to process until 
linefeed in S19 format will occur). 
.TP
.B \-\^x, \fB-\-\^hexout\fR
make raw hex dump. Ommits the S19 format record header and trailer 
for each line.
.TP
.B \fB\-\^n\fR \fI<addr_number>\fR
number of address bytes {2,3,4} to create 16-, 24- or 32-bit addresses.
.TP
.B \fB\-\^j\fR \fI<jump_number>\fR
address to run program. This address will be placed in the S9 section (last section)
.TP
.B \-\^i, \fB-\-\^ignore\fR
If given on the command line the checksum from buggy s19 file will be ignored.
.TP
.B \fB\-\^z\fR \fI<size_number>\fR
Vector feature: If given on the command line record length will be reduced to 2 when
the current adress is higher than (baseaddr + flashsize). This will lead to one S19-line
per vector even if recordlength was specified higher.



.PP
.TP
.B \fB\-\-\^saverc\fR
Save opts to personal rcfile \fI~/.Bin2S19rc\fR .
.TP
.B \-\^v, \fB\-\-\^verbose\fR
Be more verbose.
.TP
.B \-\^h, \fB\-\-\^help\fR
Print a help screen with defaults and exit.
.TP
.B \-\^V
Print version and copyright information, then exit. To get detailed version and copyright information about used modules do a

.BR
strings Bin2S19 | grep copyright: \fB[ENTER]\fR

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.Bin2S19rc
.TP
.B ~/etc/Bin2S19.conf
.TP
.B ~/share/Bin2S19/Bin2S19rc
.TP
.B /opt/etc/Bin2S19.conf
.TP
.B /opt/share/Bin2S19/Bin2S19rc
.PP
\fBBin2S19\fR looks at these locations to find its defaults. If a file is found further searching is aborted. All values can be overwritten by its corresponding commandline options.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The \fBHOME\fR variable is used.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dasm(1)
.\"
.SH BUGS
no bugs discovered
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Pantzer <Thomas@Pantzer.net>, 2002
.\"
.\"
